number 15, 1 Samuel chapter number 15 this evening, and we'll be looking specifically
at a statement from verse number 22. I'll give some background introduction to the
entirety here of 1 Samuel 15 and get into the message this evening. Many of us are familiar
with 1 Samuel 15. It's in verse number 22 that Samuel said, half the Lord is great delight in
burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord. And then it says this,
behold, to obey is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams. I've titled the
message this evening there from verse number 22, to obey is better. To obey is better. Again,
this is a familiar passage of scripture, that account that is recorded for us here in 1 Samuel
15. Of course, we know that Saul had been given some specific instructions from the Lord. As I
begin to look at 1 Samuel 15 and look at the instructions that God provides, I find that
there's really nothing complicated nor confusing about the instructions. It's very straightforward.
It's very clear. And by the way, I'm thankful for the clarity that God provides. I'm thankful
that God has given us, in His Word, truth. He's provided us with instruction. He's given us
warning. And I'm thankful for the clarity that He gives us. Not only were these instructions
not complicated, they were not confusing. And then I would say this, Samuel was very clear
in communicating to Saul that these instructions were from the Lord. This was not Samuel just
coming up with some idea that I'm going to tell Saul what to do and I'm going to give Saul some
direction as the prophet of the Lord. No, Samuel makes it abundantly clear in the first
opening verses of 1 Samuel 15 that this instruction is from God Almighty. And I'm
thankful that as we look at the Word of God, as we study the scriptures, the Bible says that all
scripture is given by inspiration of God. And then it tells us that it's profitable for us.
And we begin to think about the fact that all scripture is given by inspiration of God.
The reality is that when you go to the Word of God, there are portions, even as we see here,
where the Bible will say, thus saith the Lord, and how we ought to take heed when we see that
terminology. But the truth of the matter is that all of this book is God-breathed.
And so there are some people that would look at various aspects of Christian living, of Bible
living, and they say, well, it doesn't say, thus saith the Lord. Just stop that. Just take it as
this is God's Word and we must take God at His Word. But Samuel makes it abundantly clear. Notice
in verse number one, Samuel also said unto Saul, the Lord sent me to anoint thee to be king over
his people, over Israel. So he's talking about past experience. He's talking about the way that
God had sent him, Samuel, to anoint Saul to be the next king or to be the first king of Israel.
And we find that he references that past experience. If you would go back several
chapters of the book of 1 Samuel, you'll read of all of that and how God brought that to pass.
And we find that he continues and says this, now therefore hearken thou unto the voice
of the words of the Lord. Now the same God that sent me to anoint you Saul to be king of Israel,
that same God has a message for you. That same God is giving you some instruction.
Notice he says again in verse number two, thus saith the Lord. He already said in verse number
one, hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the Lord. And now he says in verse number two,
thus saith the Lord of hosts. I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid weight
for him in the way when he came up from Egypt. Now go and smite Amalek and utterly destroy all
that they have and spare them not, but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep,
camel and ass. And so it says that Saul gathered the people together in verse number four,
numbered them in Telam, 200,000 foot men and 10,000 men of Judah. And Saul then comes to the
city of Amalek and laid weight in the valley there in verse number five. But we find the clarity of
the instruction that is provided. And we find that God is giving Saul very clear instruction.
And this instruction that he gives him is clear. It is concise. Again, it's not complicated.
And we find that Saul receives the instruction. He receives the commandment of the Lord by the
prophet of God, Samuel. But as you study 1 Samuel 15, you'll find that he failed to obey.
You find that Saul, he did not obey the Lord. Notice in verse number seven, it says that Saul
smote the Amalekites from Havilah until thou comest to Shur. That is over against Egypt. And
he took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive and utterly destroyed all the people at the edge
of the sword. But Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and of the oxen and of
the fatlings and the lambs and all that was good and would not utterly destroy them. But everything
that was vile and refuse that they destroyed utterly. Now, Saul isn't going to get away with
it, is he? Samuel's not there, but the word of the Lord came unto Samuel in verse number 10.
And notice what God says, it repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king,
for he has turned back from following me and hath not performed my commandments.
Hath not performed my commandments. He failed to obey. I want you to notice as a side note this
evening, at the end of verse number 11, it says, and it grieved Samuel and he cried unto the Lord
all night. I could really preach a message from the last statement of verse number 11.
And here's the truth of what I see in Samuel's life. Samuel was a spiritual leader. Samuel was
a prophet of the Lord that God had called and God had commissioned. God had given him clear
instruction with regard to his role in Israel's history and his influence in the lives of those
that he was called to minister to. You find that Samuel took his service very seriously.
You find that as he was serving God, that when the people asked for a king, it grieved Samuel's heart.
You find that Samuel says, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and failing, ceasing
to pray for you. Samuel was a man of God and Samuel was a spiritual leader and the spiritual
leader is devastated at the disobedience of the king. His heart is broken because of the disobedience.
It grieved his heart. The Bible says that it grieved Samuel and notice he cried unto the Lord
all night. I love the sensitivity of Samuel. I love the heart of Samuel. He was concerned for
Saul. He was concerned that the people of God would obey the word of God. By the way,
a spiritual leader ought to have that kind of heart. Amen? And we see here in Samuel that he
cries all night. He then rises early to go meet Saul in the morning. Notice it says in verse 13
that Samuel came to Saul and Saul said unto him, blessed be thou of the Lord.
And then notice what he says, I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Samuel said,
what meaneth then this bleeding of the sheep in mine ears and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?
We find that Saul really in verse number 13 as he makes the statement that I have performed the
commandment of the Lord, that really there's a measure of self-deception that's taking place
here. We find that Saul has justified his disobedience. We've often said this over the
years that partial obedience is disobedience. We cannot pick and choose what part of God's
word or commandment we want to obey. We don't go to the word of God and say, well, I like
this one over here and that kind of fits with what I want to do and so I'm going to obey it.
But over here, no, I'm not really interested in that. And no, no, no, it's God's word and we obey.
As you continue to move through the text of scripture, Samuel says to Saul in verse 16,
stay and I will tell thee what the Lord hath said to me this night. And he said unto him,
say on. And Samuel said, when thou wast little in thine own sight, I dealt with that this morning
briefly, whilst thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel and the Lord anointed the king
over Israel. And the Lord sent me on a journey and said, go and utterly destroy the sinners,
the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the
voice of the Lord, but didst fly upon the spoil and didst evil in the sight of the Lord. See,
sometimes what happens in our lives is we don't look at disobedience as being evil.
And he says, you did evil in the sight of the Lord. And Saul said unto Samuel, yea, I have
obeyed the voice of the Lord and have gone the way which the Lord sent me and have brought Agath.
the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites."
Well, no, no, that's not what God told you to do.
He's deceived Himself.
And we find that He then blames.
It says, but the people, in verse number 21,
took of the spoil sheep and oxen, the chief of the things,
which should have been utterly destroyed,
to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal.
There's excuse and there's justification.
We find that there's a shift of blame.
It's their fault.
The reason that I disobeyed is because
they want it to keep...
You see what's happening.
We're familiar with the passage of Scripture.
And we find that as this event unfolds,
that Samuel, we read it by way of introduction
in verse number 22,
Samuel speaks to Saul
and he gives him this principle,
this statement, this truth that continues to this very day
to be impactful for the people of God.
Notice again what he says in verse number 22.
Samuel said, after hearing all that Saul said,
all of the excuse and the justification
and why they kept these things,
that they were going to keep the spoil,
the sheep, the oxen, the chief of the things,
that they should have been destroyed,
but we've saved them, we've spared them
so that we could sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal.
Samuel says, half the Lord
as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices
as in obeying the voice of the Lord.
God is the one that implemented and ordained
burnt offerings and sacrifices.
Correct?
That was not the idea of man.
That was not Moses that just was sitting around one day
and decided that he'd provide this elaborate instruction
for offerings.
No, this was God that had given the truth to his people
with regard to offerings and sacrifices,
but we find that God is using Samuel
to give this revelation to Saul
and it's been preserved for us this evening
that God has greater delight in obedience,
in obeying the voice of the Lord
than in burnt offerings and sacrifices.
We cannot disobey the voice of God and say,
well, we're disobeying in order to do this.
And he concludes in verse number 22 by saying this,
behold, to obey is better than sacrifice
and to hearken than the fat of rams.
To obey is better, is better.
We're familiar with the word of God
and we're familiar with the examples
throughout the scriptures of those who obeyed
and those who did not obey.
We could go around the room this evening
and we could take testimony and example
of those that we've read of that disobeyed the Lord
and the consequences of their disobedience.
We could read of those and testify of those
that obeyed the Lord and the consequences
of their obedience, the blessing of God
in their life because of obedience.
We understand what it is to obey humanly
when we think about living in this temporal world
and we understand that we are faced
with laws and regulations
and we understand what it is to obey
and we understand the consequences of disobedience.
And we understand what it is to teach our children to obey
and we understand as we would even use the terminology
and have them quote, children obey your parents
and the Lord for this is right.
And we understand this concept of obedience.
We understand the concept of authority
and structure and rules if you will.
And God gives commandment.
And by the way, let me say this,
I am so thankful that God's given us his word.
I am so thankful that when we go to the word of God
that God has provided us with instruction for our living.
He's provided us with instruction that helps us
to understand what it is that we can do
in our lives that will please him.
He's also given us instruction and warning
with regard to those things that we would do
that displease him.
I'm thankful for the word of God.
And we find that as we consider the subject
of obedience this evening, I would say this,
aren't you thankful that God's creation obeys him?
God's creation obeys him.
And God's people should obey him as well.
I understand that God made us with a free will.
I understand that.
But just as creation obeys the creator,
we as the redeemed people of God, we ought to obey him.
I want you to think about this,
and we're not gonna turn to each of these passages,
but I want you to think about the raven
in 1 Kings chapter number 17.
Elijah was sent to a brook.
And God says this to Elijah,
I have commanded there a raven to feed thee.
You think Elijah was thankful that raven obeyed?
Right?
That raven came.
Brought him food.
A raven.
Close to a crow.
Not exactly, but close enough.
And we got a bunch of crows around here, drive me crazy.
But a raven.
It's God's creation.
And God says to Elijah, I've commanded him.
I've commanded that raven.
I think about the great fish, or the whale,
in the book of Jonah.
God says in the first chapter, in verse number 17,
that he prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah
after Jonah was cast overboard.
Remember the mariners, they at first
didn't wanna cast Jonah overboard, right?
They were reluctant to follow what Jonah said,
and they finally cast him overboard,
and God had prepared a great fish.
And then in chapter number two,
after God got his attention, all that takes place there
in chapter number two, you come to verse number 10,
and the Bible says that God told the great fish,
the whale, to spew him out.
And guess what?
You think Jonah was glad that that whale obeyed?
Can you imagine if the whale disobeyed
the same way Jonah did?
And instead of, I mean, think about it.
What did Jonah do?
He went in the opposite direction
of what God commanded him to do.
What if that whale had gone out to sea
instead of up to the shore?
Right?
No Jonah getting to Nineveh and preaching, right?
But no, the great fish obeyed.
It obeyed.
Think about this, when the disciples,
as you study the Gospel accounts,
and you read of the great storm.
Master, carest thou not that we perish?
And Jesus comes and says, peace, be still.
And what happens?
The wind and the waves, they obey him.
And they say this, what matter of man is this,
that even the winds and the waves obey him?
He's God, he's the creator, he is the sustainer.
Everything is held in the power of his hand,
and the winds and the waves obey him.
You know, the demons obeyed him.
The demons obeyed.
You read Mark chapter one and verse number 27,
and you read how the demons obeyed God, why?
Because he is the one with all authority and all power,
and they are subject unto him.
And begin to think about these examples this evening,
and I begin to think about this text of Scripture
in 1 Samuel 15, when God uses Samuel
to confront Saul about his disobedience,
and he says to obey is better.
I'll give you a couple of thoughts this evening.
Number one, if you're taking notes, obedience is critical.
Obedience is critical.
This evening, we think about the walk
that we have with the Lord,
and we think about this truth of walking in obedience,
and the critical aspect of that.
We sing the song, trust and obey.
He is trustworthy.
He's never failed.
Aren't you thankful for that?
He's never failed you one time,
and he's never going to fail you,
and because he is trustworthy,
we ought to respond in obedience.
We understand this evening that God blesses obedience.
That is a principle that's found
throughout the entirety of the Word of God.
He blesses obedience, and when I think about the fact
that obedience is critical,
and we begin to think about the Word of God,
turn to the book of Deuteronomy.
Maybe you want to jot it down to read Leviticus 26 later.
I won't take the time this evening
to look at Leviticus 26,
but you go through the entirety of that passage,
and it's quite interesting to see how God makes it
so abundantly clear to his people
on the critical aspect of obedience,
and here's what I'll do if you obey,
and here's what the consequences
are going to be of disobedience,
but look here in Deuteronomy 11.
A familiar passage of Scripture.
I want you to begin in verse 26.
Of course, the people of God
have seen God work miraculously.
are now ready to enter into the land of promise,
and God has given them once again
the opportunity to be instructed
as they would just prepare
for entering into the land of promise.
And Moses says this in v. 26 of Deuteronomy 11,
"'Behold, I set before you this day
a blessing and a curse.
A blessing, if ye obey the commandments
of the Lord your God,
which I command you this day.
And a curse, if ye will not obey
the commandments of the Lord your God,
but turn aside out of the way
which I command you this day
to go after other gods
which ye have not known.'"
Now, when you read these verses of Scripture,
and I know that they're familiar,
but when you read these verses of Scripture,
you find it seems to be so simple to me
that God so graciously says,
I've set before you a blessing and a curse.
You want the blessing?
V. 27, it comes by way of obedience.
The curse, however, comes by way of disobedience.
Now, anyone in their right mind
is going to want v. 27,
not v. 28.
But how many times when we read
the Old Testament do we read of a people
that are stiff-necked and disobedient?
It was not that they did not know.
It was not that they did not have the instruction.
It was not that God did not send
prophet and witness to them.
It was that they had a heart bent
on disobedience and rebellion.
You don't need to turn there,
but listen to this verse of Scripture in Nehemiah 9,
and verse number 17, it says,
and refused to obey.
I want you to think about that just for a moment.
The people of God who had been given the Word of God,
who God had sent prophet after prophet after prophet,
that they do not hearken unto the Lord.
It talks about what he's speaking of in context.
He says, but they and our fathers
dealt proudly and hardened their necks
and hearkened not to thy commandments
and refused to obey.
Refused to obey.
You ever have a situation where someone refuses to obey?
I hope we've never been in a situation
where we've refused to obey the Lord.
But the people of God, you say,
Pastor, this is a simple message.
I know, and it's so often that the simple things
in the Christian life is what really hinders us,
what really trips us up.
They're getting ready.
I'm nowhere near a sports fan like I used to be
for a whole host of reasons.
One of them is time.
Another one is their agenda
and everything else that goes on with it.
But I do understand that here,
maybe just in the next week or two,
maybe it's actually already started,
but some training camps for football.
I remember going to practice after the season was over
and you'd get back to starting the next season.
And it didn't matter.
I was a senior and I had played varsity football for years,
but we get to the football field to start
and guess what you start with?
Basics.
And when we think about the Christian life,
it's sometimes the simplicity of something like obedience
that really is a problem that we deal with.
We see it in Israel over and over and over.
They refuse to obey.
In Deuteronomy chapter 30, you're there in chapter 11.
Turn to chapter number 30, if you will.
In chapter number 30,
after Moses has faithfully given a charge
really to the people of God
with regard to their entrance into the land,
he says in Deuteronomy 30 in verse number 19,
I call heaven and earth to record this day against you
that I have set before you life and death,
blessing and cursing.
Therefore, choose life
that both thou and thy seed may live.
See, the choice to obey is ours.
Saul had a choice in 1 Samuel 15.
Did he not?
He had a choice.
It was not that the instruction wasn't clear.
It was not that there was something complicated about it.
It was simply this, he chose to disobey.
He chose to go a different path.
He thought that we could save these things.
He listened to the people
and he thought we can make a sacrifice
and take burnt offerings,
but God says, that's not what I told you to do.
A verse of Scripture, really two verses of Scripture
that many of us have memorized,
Proverbs 3, verses five and six.
Trust in the Lord, how?
All thine heart.
And this is what?
Lean not on an own understanding.
In all thy ways, acknowledge him
and he shall direct thy paths, right?
And sometimes what happens,
we lean on our understanding,
we begin to try to justify something,
we begin to try to evaluate a situation
and begin to look at the culture
and look at society and look at what's popular
and then determine what it is that we're going to do.
Listen, Saul was not instructed to go find out
what the people wanted to do.
Samuel told Saul, here's what God said, amen?
It wasn't open for discussion,
it wasn't open for debate.
I don't know how he is the king,
just I don't know if they had some kind of a situation
where, hey, what do you guys want to do about this?
No, no, if we have the mind of the Lord,
if we know what God said,
it's really not open for discussion, amen?
It's not open for debate.
It's like I've said many times over the years,
God said it, that settles it.
I know that it's been popular
to insert that center statement, I believe it,
but the reality is that whether you believe it
or I believe it doesn't change the fact
that God said it and it settles it.
And we have here this evening this truth
that obedience is critical.
To obey is better.
And so here we find this evening that obedience is critical.
Let me say this, number two, obedience requires commitment.
Obedience requires commitment.
You know, when we make a commitment or a determination
that we're going to obey God, you can just count on
there's gonna be some stuff that comes up
that's gonna try to get you to disobey.
There's gonna be something that happens.
And we find that if we're going to live a life of obedience
that requires commitment, it requires us to come
to the place where we say, listen,
I am going to obey God, period.
I'm just gonna obey God.
Turn to the book of Joshua, if you will,
in the 24th chapter.
I referenced this morning a little bit about
the difference there in Joshua and judges
and just the charge that Joshua's given
at the end of the book of Joshua.
And here, as we come to the 24th chapter,
we find that he's giving this charge to the people.
And if you read the entirety of the charge,
I mean, what a charge he issues to the people of God.
And he brings them really to a place of decision.
He tells them in verse number 15,
choose you this day whom you will serve.
He tells them, as for me and my house,
we will serve the Lord.
We're familiar with verse number 15.
He says, listen, you have a choice to make.
I've already made my choice.
Me and my house, we are going to serve the Lord,
but you have a choice to make.
Notice as you go through the text of Scripture,
look, if you will, the people said in verse number 21,
the people said unto Joshua,
nay, but we will serve the Lord.
And Joshua said unto the people,
you are witnesses against yourselves
that you have chosen you, the Lord, to serve him.
And they said, we are witnesses.
Now therefore put away, said he, the strange gods,
which are among you, and incline your heart
unto the Lord God of Israel.
Notice what the Bible says in verse number 24.
And the people said unto Joshua,
the Lord our God will we serve,
and his voice will we obey.
That's a good statement.
That's a good commitment.
I believe that as you look, of course,
and you study the history of Israel,
and you look at the next generation,
obviously there's some issues
with regard to their obedience.
There's some issues with regard to their commitment.
But I want you to see they make this commitment.
This evening, we need to just draw a line in the sand.
Say, I'm gonna obey God.
You know there are a lot of pressures in our society
to cause you and I to disobey God?
Seriously.
There are pressures today in our society.
Why?
Because our culture and our society
is anti-God and anti-Bible.
And being anti-God and anti-Bible,
they are going to pressure us,
are you gonna obey God or not?
Listen, I don't obey God,
and you should not obey God out of convenience.
Obedience is not a matter of convenience.
Obedience is a matter of commitment.
See, because if we obey out of convenience,
then when it becomes inconvenient to obey,
we just fold and go along with whatever the situation is.
Right?
What is it that caused Daniel to pray?
What is it that caused Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego
not to bow?
And there was some commitment to obedience.
God had given some instruction with regard to bowing down before no other gods.
And they say, hey, you're going to bow.
No, we're not.
We made a commitment to obey.
That means you're going to go in the furnace.
So be it.
We made a commitment to obey, right?
We read it in Daniel 3, Daniel 6.
Daniel, he's praying.
If anyone makes any petition to anyone other than the king,
den of lions, my God said to pray.
So I'm going to pray, just as I did before.
See, obedience requires commitment.
Turn to the book of Acts, if you will.
Acts chapter number 5.
In Acts chapter number 5, I see a measure of commitment
that is so vital for us this evening to really grasp
and get a hold of in our hearts.
The people of God have already begun facing some persecution
and some difficulty.
We've read in previous messages about some of that persecution that begins.
In chapter number 4, you enter into the fifth chapter
and you continue to see the persecution and the purging, if you will.
We find that they were put in prison.
It says in verse number 18 that they laid their hands on the apostles
and put them in the common prison.
I love verse number 19,
but the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors and brought them forth.
Isn't that wonderful?
God intervened. God worked.
The angel of the Lord said to them in verse 20,
Go stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
They'd already been commanded not to speak any longer in His name.
We find that here they've been delivered.
The officers came.
They were told to go get the prisoners.
In verse number 22, when the officers came and found them not in the prison,
they returned and told, saying,
The prison truly found we shut with all safety,
and the keepers standing without before the doors.
But when we had opened, we found no man within.
Now can you imagine these officers telling this to the commanding officer?
Hold on a minute. What happened here?
I'm telling you, we got there and it was closed, it was sealed,
and the guards were outside.
And we opened the door and there's no one in there.
God.
Notice what it says.
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priest heard these things,
they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.
Then came one and told them, saying,
Behold, we found them.
Notice what it says.
The men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people.
Isn't that awesome?
They're doing what God told them to do.
God said, You're to be my witnesses.
God said, You're to proclaim my truth.
And that's what they're doing.
It says in verse 26,
Then went the captain with the officers and brought them without violence,
for they feared the people, lest they should have been stoned.
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council,
and the high priest asked them.
Notice what the high priest asks in verse 28.
Did not we straightly command you that you should not teach in this name?
I can almost hear the tone of the high priest.
Were we not clear?
Did you not understand?
Was there something that was ambiguous about what we told you to do?
You see the high priest.
Didn't we command you?
Behold, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine.
Isn't that awesome?
And look at what it says.
And intend to bring this man's blood upon us.
Now, I'm speaking this evening about the fact that obedience requires commitment.
In this situation, Peter and the disciples, they knew what God had commanded.
But now there's another command.
He says in verse number 28,
Did not we straightly command you?
What happens when we are faced with two commands?
We must take heed to the greater command.
What's the greater command?
The one with the greater authority.
Who's the one with all authority?
Our Savior.
All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.
He has all authority and all power.
He is God.
He is the creator and sustainer.
And so we find that this high priest who has some earthly, some temporal power,
he says, hey, don't you know that we've commanded you?
And Peter says,
Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said,
We ought to obey God rather than men.
How many times have we read that verse of Scripture?
How many times have we said those words of Acts 5 in verse number 29?
We ought to obey God rather than men.
Listen, that's not a card that we pull out in convenience
when we just don't want to obey some other authority.
Right?
That's not how that's to be used.
It's not a situation where some authority,
we've been living in all kinds of disobedience,
and then some authority comes and wants to tell us to do something and say,
We ought to obey God rather than men.
No, no, no, y'all ain't been obeying God anyway, right?
That's really what they could say to us.
But as we look at the Word of God,
we see that no, they were not using it in that manner.
And I also would say this.
When we say that we ought to obey God rather than men,
it doesn't mean that we should expect it to be a road of ease.
Rather, we should expect that there's going to be some pressures put on
to find out how committed we really are to obedience.
How committed are you to obeying God?
How committed am I to obeying God?
Can I say this evening,
in the United States of America,
it's actually been really easy to obey God.
It has been abundantly easy to obey God.
And if we'd be honest,
there's a lot of areas where we have fallen short of obeying God.
But it's been easy.
We're not going to start obeying God
when they start telling us we're going to go to jail.
It doesn't really make sense that we would do that.
But we find here in Acts chapter 5
that he not only says we ought to obey God rather than men,
but he says the God of our fathers raised up Jesus,
whom He slew and hanged on a tree.
Listen, we serve a risen Savior.
Amen?
We sang this morning, because He lives.
Him hath God exalted with His right hand
to be a prince and a Savior,
for to give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins.
And we are His witnesses of these things.
And so is also the Holy Ghost,
whom God hath given to them that obey Him.
When they heard that, they were cut to the heart
and took counsel to slay them.
Listen, just because we say we're ought to obey God rather than men,
don't expect that the authorities are going to say,
oh, okay, we didn't understand that.
Go ahead, carry on.
It's not going to work that way.
Right?
They're ready to kill them.
Gamaliel steps in and he gives some counsel
with regard to what they should do.
We don't have time to develop all of it,
but he speaks about Theudas in verse number 36.
He speaks about Judas in verse number 37.
When he speaks about Theudas in verse 36,
he spoke about a man that was boasting himself to be somebody.
See, that's the great difference between the disciples and Theudas.
We're nobodies serving the King of Kings.
We're not boasting ourselves to be somebody.
But we ought not be anyway, right?
This morning's message.
It's all about Jesus.
We're exalting and magnifying Him.
He speaks of Judas of Galilee in verse number 37.
And then notice what he says in verse 38.
And now I say unto you, refrain from these men,
speaking of the disciples,
refrain from these men and let them alone,
for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to naught.
That's true.
That's what happened with Theudas.
That's what happened with Judas.
It came to naught because it was a movement of men.
But notice what he says in verse 39.
But if it be of God, he cannot overthrow it,
lest happily ye be found even to fight against God.
But then notice what happens in verse number 40.
It says, and to him they agreed.
These religious leaders, the high priest giving charge here
with all that's taking place, they agree with Gamaliel.
And it says this, that they called the apostles,
and then notice right in the middle of verse number 40,
and beaten them.
I have it underlined in my Bible.
And beaten them.
Demanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus
and let them go.
We're speaking tonight about obedience requires commitment.
They've already been in prison,
but they're committed to obey.
They get supernaturally delivered from prison,
and they're teaching and preaching in His name.
And then they're called before the council,
and the council's ready to slay them,
and Gamaliel intercedes, but they're beating them.
And so the apostles are beaten,
and then they're commanded again.
And again, that they should not speak in the name of Jesus.
And it says in v. 41,
and they departed from the presence of the council,
rejoicing that they were counted worthy
to suffer shame for His name.
And then read v. 42.
And daily, in the temple and in every house,
they ceased not to preach, to teach, and preach Jesus Christ.
That is a commitment to obedience.
Amen?
Obedience is critical.
Obedience requires commitment.
See, when we truly understand who God is
and we understand His authority in our lives,
we say, I'm going to obey God.
There's really no other option for me but to obey God.
I understand I can disobey,
but as I'm considering it spiritually,
as I'm looking at the truth of God's Word,
why would I want to disobey?
I understand this evening that we're humans and we struggle,
but the reality is that in the power of God and with His help,
we ought to say, I'm going to obey God.
I'm going to obey God.
And the commitment to obedience
that we see in Acts 5 is convicting to me.
It's convicting to me.
And I look at this passage of Scripture
and I wonder tonight how committed am I to obeying God?
I've already said it,
it's been easy in our nation to obey God.
I made this statement a few Sundays ago.
I believe it was July 3rd, so a month ago.
I made the statement that we could go out after church
and we can preach and we can give Gospel tracts
and we don't have to have any fear.
No one's going to do anything to us.
I made that statement on July 3rd, Sunday morning,
preaching from this pulpit,
and that afternoon I read of a preacher
in the state of Washington
that was arrested for preaching on the corner.
And I thought, oh my.
I just said a couple hours ago
that we live in a nation where we can do that.
It's changing, it's changing.
But God has not changed.
He's the same yesterday and today and forever.
Listen, your circumstances might change,
but God doesn't change.
You make a commitment to obey God
in the area of your finances.
You expect that there's going to be some unexpected bills.
Right?
Why?
Because Satan wants to find out if you're serious.
Oh, you're going to obey God?
I read a story about a man that said,
man, I want God's blessing on my finances
and I'm going to tithe and I'm going to give to God's work
and I'm going to make this commitment.
And all of a sudden, he didn't have an abundance anymore.
Well, I just don't think I can afford to do it.
Did God change?
I'm going to make a commitment
that I'm going to be a bold witness.
I'm going to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with people.
All of a sudden, you make that commitment
and someone's going, hey, you can't talk about that here.
Somebody's going to slam a door.
Somebody's going to, I'm going to call the police.
They're going to, why are we committed to obeying God?
Listen, this evening, when we think about the word of God,
this book is more authoritative
than any other document on the face of the earth.
Any other document, this book is superior.
And so I ought to obey God.
If I want God's blessing, and I do,
I believe that we want God's blessing,
we better get back to obedience.
Not taking the approach of Saul in 1 Samuel 15,
and excusing our disobedience,
justifying our partial obedience.
Well, we were going to do this, and I was going to do that.
God says, no, no, no, what did I say?
That's not what I told you to do, Saul.
I was clear.
When we go to the word of God,
listen, if we really want to know what God wants us to do,
we can find it.
If we want to justify our disobedience,
you know what I found in life?
We can figure out a way to do it, just like Saul did.
And this evening, we just make a commitment.
Why?
Because to obey is better.
To obey is better.
It is critical, obedience is critical.
But obedience requires commitment.
I wonder tonight, how committed am I
to obeying the word of God?
I mean, I'm not talking about when it's easy to obey,
when it's convenient to obey.
When everyone else is obeying.
I'm talking about when the pressure comes.
When it no longer is easy, when it no longer is convenient.
Am I still going to obey God?
When they say, hey, listen, you keep preaching that way,
and here's what's going to happen.
What do you do?
Where do you go?
God is able.
I just got to trust and obey.
Let's pray.
Father, we love you.
Thank you for loving us.
Thank you for the precious word of God.
I thank you for the subject matter this evening.
I thank you for how you've used your word
to convict me in my life.
God, I pray that we'd take a few moments this evening
to really evaluate our lives.
I think about what Mary said to those servants
in John 2.
Speaking of Jesus, she said to those servants,
whatsoever he saith unto you, do.
God, I pray that we'd have that type of obedient heart.
That, Lord, I will obey.
You've given us your word, and we're so thankful for it.
I pray that we'd get back to the matter of obedience,
that we'd live, walk in obedience, that you would bless.
I pray that if there's some specific area,
I've only mentioned a few,
but perhaps there's some specific area in our lives
that the Holy Spirit of God would just prick our hearts.
We ask you to do that, Lord,
that we'd get it right with you,
that we'd renew that commitment to obedience,
and see your hand of blessing.
We pray that in the next few moments,
as we have opportunity to respond,
I pray that you'd bless, that you'd move.
We pray that you'd be glorified.
For it's in Christ's name we pray, would you.